README.md, before:

# The Psychosocial Influence of Gaming:  An Exploratory Analysis
This repo is an exploratory data analysis based on the dataset [*Gaming Habits and Psychological Well-being: An international dataset about the Anxiety, Life Satisfaction and Social Phobia of over 13000 gamers*](https://osf.io/vnbxk/) by Marian Sauter and Dejan Draschkow.

## Contents
0) [Files to Reference](#files-to-reference)
1) [Introduction](#introduction)
2) [Demographics Overview](#demographics-overview)
3) [Questions and Results](#questions-and-results)
4) [Implications/Analysis](#implicationsanalysis)
5) [Limitations of Data](#limitations-of-data)
6) [Recommendations for Future Surveys](#recommendations-for-future-surveys)

## Files to Reference
- GitHub Files for grading;
    - *final_analysis* folder is where the final_analysis.ipynb file for the assignment is located
    - *images* folder is where all the images used in the presentation is stored
    - *data* folder is where the initial raw data downloaded from Kaggle is stored
    - *data_cleanup* folder is where the notebook and cleaned up data file that each person used for their own analysis is located
    - All other files not listed were files used for individual team members exploration
- Presentation:
    - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VSbhkZAbGHpW0vkueg4-rBuxEKFBP9cp4Pzu8Cgy2RU/edit


## Introduction
Mental health support has become increasingly prevalent since 2019; the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. All over the globe people had found themselves at an all time low, or at the very least, searching for various ways to keep their mental health in check. Many had found themselves integrating into online communities, an overarching one being gaming. A dataset was compiled in 2015 exploring the relationship between various mental health-related categories and gaming, and although the data may not be immediately recent, it still provides valuable pieces of information worth analyzing.

## Demographics Overview
For easier visualization, a variety of infographics were made based on the data after cleaning. Although there were 11,138 responses taken from 140 different countries, nearly 4000 of the responses had been from the U.S. Additionally, the majority of the responses had been input by males (10463 male responses, 638 female, and 37 other) aged 18 to 21 coming out to be 54.6% of the data, with those aged 22 to 25 coming in second at 33% (ages 26 to 30 made up 9.8%, while ages 31 to 60 were 2.5%). League of Legends was also the primary game for 83.7% of the responses.

## Questions and Results
How do gamers compare to one another in different areas of mental health?
- Significant differences in GAD, SWL, and SPIN scores across different countries
- No correlation between age and psychological scores
- No statistical significance between League of Legends players vs non-League players
- Gamers motivated by "having fun" had statistically significantly lower GAD scores than those motivated by "winning"
- Gamers scoring higher on GAD were more motivated by "relaxation" than other gamers
- Preferred playstyle does have an effect on levels of anxiety, satisfaction with life, or social phobia for an individual who plays games
- Hours played per week does have an effect on levels of anxiety, satisfaction with life, or social phobia for an individual who plays games

## Implications/Analysis
- Demographics such as country of residence can impact GAD, SWL and SPIN scores
    - Certain countries values differ from others 
- The type of motivation that a player has impacts their overall psychosocial test scores
    - There could also be underlying motivations such as earnings, sponsorship titles, and clout
- Multiplayer games associated with lower anxiety, higher satisfaction of life and lower social phobia
    - Multiplayer games usually include collaboration, synchronization, and socialization 

## Limitations of Data
The data sampled may not have been representative of the gaming population as a whole. We've noted some potential issues as follows:
- 2017 dataset greatly focused on previous participant majority (Male U.S. resident, aged 18-25, playing League of Legends multiplayer for fun or improvement)
- Restricted game distribution- mainly competitive or stressful games (no sandbox/farming/simulation)
- Unclear and inconsistent responses (e.g. gaming motivation category and earnings category)


## Recommendations for Future Surveys
- Overall updating dataset
    - Run survey for longer period of time and through more platforms
    - Adding more games and game categories
    - Keep data more uniform and clear (e.g. ‘earnings’ column)- providing set options

Commit message:

adding the slide deck in pdf format and updating the readme file

README.md, after:

# The Psychosocial Influence of Gaming:  An Exploratory Analysis
This repo is an exploratory data analysis based on the dataset [*Gaming Habits and Psychological Well-being: An international dataset about the Anxiety, Life Satisfaction and Social Phobia of over 13000 gamers*](https://osf.io/vnbxk/) by Marian Sauter and Dejan Draschkow.

## Contents
0) [Files to Reference](#files-to-reference)
1) [Introduction](#introduction)
2) [Demographics Overview](#demographics-overview)
3) [Questions and Results](#questions-and-results)
4) [Implications/Analysis](#implicationsanalysis)
5) [Limitations of Data](#limitations-of-data)
6) [Recommendations for Future Surveys](#recommendations-for-future-surveys)

## Files to Reference
- GitHub Files for grading;
    - *final_analysis* folder is where the final_analysis.ipynb file for the assignment is located as well as the slide deck we used for the live presentation in pdf format
    - *images* folder is where all the images used in the presentation is stored
    - *data* folder is where the initial raw data downloaded from Kaggle is stored
    - *data_cleanup* folder is where the notebook and cleaned up data file that each person used for their own analysis is located
    - All other files not listed were files used for individual team members exploration
- Presentation:
    - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VSbhkZAbGHpW0vkueg4-rBuxEKFBP9cp4Pzu8Cgy2RU/edit


## Introduction
Mental health support has become increasingly prevalent since 2019; the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. All over the globe people had found themselves at an all time low, or at the very least, searching for various ways to keep their mental health in check. Many had found themselves integrating into online communities, an overarching one being gaming. A dataset was compiled in 2015 exploring the relationship between various mental health-related categories and gaming, and although the data may not be immediately recent, it still provides valuable pieces of information worth analyzing.

## Demographics Overview
For easier visualization, a variety of infographics were made based on the data after cleaning. Although there were 11,138 responses taken from 140 different countries, nearly 4000 of the responses had been from the U.S. Additionally, the majority of the responses had been input by males (10463 male responses, 638 female, and 37 other) aged 18 to 21 coming out to be 54.6% of the data, with those aged 22 to 25 coming in second at 33% (ages 26 to 30 made up 9.8%, while ages 31 to 60 were 2.5%). League of Legends was also the primary game for 83.7% of the responses.

## Questions and Results
How do gamers compare to one another in different areas of mental health?
- Significant differences in GAD, SWL, and SPIN scores across different countries
- No correlation between age and psychological scores
- No statistical significance between League of Legends players vs non-League players
- Gamers motivated by "having fun" had statistically significantly lower GAD scores than those motivated by "winning"
- Gamers scoring higher on GAD were more motivated by "relaxation" than other gamers
- Preferred playstyle does have an effect on levels of anxiety, satisfaction with life, or social phobia for an individual who plays games
- Hours played per week does have an effect on levels of anxiety, satisfaction with life, or social phobia for an individual who plays games

## Implications/Analysis
- Demographics such as country of residence can impact GAD, SWL and SPIN scores
    - Certain countries values differ from others 
- The type of motivation that a player has impacts their overall psychosocial test scores
    - There could also be underlying motivations such as earnings, sponsorship titles, and clout
- Multiplayer games associated with lower anxiety, higher satisfaction of life and lower social phobia
    - Multiplayer games usually include collaboration, synchronization, and socialization 

## Limitations of Data
The data sampled may not have been representative of the gaming population as a whole. We've noted some potential issues as follows:
- 2017 dataset greatly focused on previous participant majority (Male U.S. resident, aged 18-25, playing League of Legends multiplayer for fun or improvement)
- Restricted game distribution- mainly competitive or stressful games (no sandbox/farming/simulation)
- Unclear and inconsistent responses (e.g. gaming motivation category and earnings category)


## Recommendations for Future Surveys
- Overall updating dataset
    - Run survey for longer period of time and through more platforms
    - Adding more games and game categories
    - Keep data more uniform and clear (e.g. ‘earnings’ column)- providing set options
